# Credit


The objective of this problem is to get which kind of card (AMEX, MASTERCARD, VISA) is certain number. It also has to say if it is valid or not, for that there's the Luhn's algorithm, acordding to cs50 this are the rules:

* Multiply every other digit by 2, starting with the number’s second-to-last digit, and then add those products’ digits together.
* Add the sum to the sum of the digits that weren’t multiplied by 2.
* If the total’s last digit is 0 (or, put more formally, if the total modulo 10 is congruent to 0), the number is valid!

To implement the algorithm I first check if a digit has to be multiplied by two or not, for this I ckeck the lenght of a string if this a an even number, multiply by two even position (0,2,4), if the length is an odd number multiply by two the odd positions (1,3,5).
Also if a number is bigger than 10, I rest 10 and add 1 to sum just the digits of the number.
When I get all the numbers of the sum I used the reduce function to sum every element of the lazy sequence, and then check the module, and thats the Luhn's algorithm.

For determine the company of the card, i used nested conditions and check lenghts and initials, a cool part of clojure is that if you have to compare three conditions all with and you just have to put and once.

At the end the in the credit function, I used a condition if its a valid card I then try to know the company.

Credit can be found on [cs50_clojure/credit.cljs](https://github.com/pedabraham/Learning_clojure/blob/main/cs50_clojure/credit.cljs)  
